And people around there, I'm sure that
there were people in there that, there were
students in there, boys, that had nothing at all.
And they got jobs. You could get a job with
families. They needed help. Students would come
and work with them or something like that. And, of
course, they worked all across the campus. Yeah,
and student labor was common, very common. You had
the professors and some of the personnel paid, but
other than that, it was always student labor. And
you got 25 cents an hour. Now, when did you start
doing chores for pay?
Right away. I laid 6,000 feet of
six-inch cast iron water mains in College Park. I
had a hundred niggers working for me. My, my, my.
How old were you then, probably? High school? No.
High school, I was in grade school. My, my, my. I was
a young kid. I was just a kid. Now, your dad was a part
of the group. Yeah, the college park was founded by
Dan Scholes. uh, Dr., uh, uh,
well, let's see, Dan Scrooge, and then there was,
uh, when he was in the economics, Dr. Clark. He was a
crazy man. He was odd. Uh, he was in the economics
department, and his idea was that, uh, On an
automobile, when your repair bills got beyond
what it cost to get a new one, your payments on a new
one, you traded it off. You always drove an ethics
car. Now, of the partners in the Southside, who put
in the biggest investment? Who put the most money
into it, do you know? I don't know. Or did they do it
equally? They must have done it equally with the
addition of the bank. I don't think there was any
money put in it. Which bank underwrote it? I think
at that time it must have been the
First State and Trust Fund. Okay, from downtown
Bryan. And
about how many acres of land did they develop? It's
about a hundred. And who'd they get the land, who'd
they buy it from? Hard liquor. And it was called the
Southside Development Company. The man that,
okay, let's count them all. There was Burchard.
house is still on Dexter. He took care of all the
books. He was a,
he worked for the state. You were saying Burchard?
Burchard. The same one who worked for FAPS. He was a
state chemist of some sort. And so they were there
and they kept good books on the thing. Then there
was a a fellow named Doherty and he just had one
house there and then there was Lancaster well that
was their father and their grandfather their
grandfather was the one that I had contact with he
taught me he was an old carpenter and he years and
years many hours I spent in there he was showing me
how to to handle tools and carpentry. And then
there was Dr. Clark, and there was Dad. That was the
whole thing of it. And that's 1920? 1920. That's
what surprised me. I was looking at it not too long
ago, and it surprised me. I thought it was later
than that. And what they did, right down Dexter,
You can just see them. Each of them was granted two
lots.
And the first one is Butchard. The next one is
Dougherty. And the next one is Lancaster. And then
Dad said, and
Dr. Then it was Dr. Clark. He said, I want one lot
here, but I want one lot down here. And Dad said, I
want both of my lots together. Because when I meet
my wife, I don't want nobody
to know about it. So that was the setup. And I think
they just gave those lots to him. Now, the land went
along Jersey from Dexter to what street? What were
the boundaries?
The
boundary on the east side is where the church is
now. Where the Episcopal Church? Yeah. They're in
South. Some of that property is in South. Some of it
is in College Park and some of it is in
Southoverwood. And then on the west side is up
there where the Former Students Association is.
That's the west end of it. And it went straight back
and they had originally it had a the south corner
the south corner down there had the lots were laid
out for niggers there were niggers now were there
any houses east of Southside Park no not for a long
time that's what I thought but people came in
Herschel Burgess bought it from Shoots. Shoots, I
think. And then he developed it? He developed it.
He and his wife developed that. And that's what's
called South Oakwood. That's the home of the
United States. I was asking their son. I know him.
He was in the American Legion when we were
together. And... I knew him not too well, but there
was a group of them. They had a whole family down
there, but they moved off somewhere else, and
Schubert told me that they had a place over north of
my place. Now,
the son is still alive. He was in World War II.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. He was the one I was telling you got
his arm hurt. Now did, when those new houses were
built over there, did that change the life of this
faculty family? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. But you still
came on the campus to play with your buddies? Not
really. Really? So you played... By that time I was
going to school. Oh, okay. At that time, I was going
to college or going to Bryan High School. All
right. Now, when you went down to Bryan, somebody
took you down there in a car? No, I drove. Oh, you
drove. All right. 28 Hub Mobile. 28 Hub Mobile. All
right. Okay. It was a sedan. Big old six-cylinder.
Okay. And did anybody ride with you? About
how many college kids went down to Bryan? So you
were kind of by yourself? Did they tease you or
anything about? No.
I was so interested in the shop work they had. that
it didn't really bother me because, oh, I made a lot
of friends, old John M. Barron and the Barron's and
his sister, the big old gal. Let's see, now the
Brogdon girls, they're older than you are, Daisy
and Eileen? Daisy worked for Dad. Okay. He came in
after the Martins, see, We brought this other
family with us when we came here, the Martin
family, and she was dad's secretary. I see. And she
had brought, that's an interesting story,
because she must have come from south
Mississippi. She met this English woman down in,
ground and guff for it someplace and they married
him but he couldn't read or write and she taught him
to read and write and then the next thing she did she
brought him to Starkville because at that time I
don't know that an A&M had ever happened but in
Mississippi it did happen they had sort of a lower
grade school in the college.
A demonstration school. No, it was just a regular
old school. Well, but I mean it was a school for some
of their education majors to get experience
teaching and all? No, I don't think so. It was just
playing. They knew they had to educate those
people, and the college was appointed to do it. Oh,
I see, okay. And so that's what, that's what, it was
just straight, straight out. And so he got
John Martin, Johnny, Johnny Martin, he got, he got
his I think he was up, he was in college by the time we
moved over here. But anyways, he and his wife and
they had a little boy named John, too. And they came
in that big old hub mobile that Daddy bought. And
they lived in a building that's just south, north
of the chemistry lab. building in there, I don't
know what it was used for, but they broke it up into
little apartments, and they lived in that, and she
worked for Dad, and he built a barn in
College Park before we built the house, and he was
an Englishman. He would talk just like that, and so
when When Dad went to Europe, he instructed Dad how
to handle the
people in buying stuff over there. And so then Dad
brought back two or three
During
those years, who were your closest buddies in high
school? Well, I used to play with all the Lucian
Morgan and Charles Ritchie. See, Ritchie was
Morgan. I don't remember what he did. But he had a
house right where the Momoa Student Center is
right now. And when you were in high school, if you
and your buddies were going to have a good time, did
you all ever go out on a Saturday night and have a
good time? Where did you go? I bought a bottle of
tea.
And I fixed it up. And the only real thing that we
could find was on each end of the administration
building, you know, the administration, the
white one, there's some parking lots there.
Mm-hmm. And they were the only ones big enough. You
take that Model T, and you just drive in there, and
you kick that, just turn it as tight as you can. Then
you grab ahold of the ears and pull them down. And
you just sit there. And it'll just go round and
round and round and round like everybody that you
know.
And I made a lot of friends with some of those. And
where did you take a date in those days? Well, we
took them to the dances at A&M. Here at A&M? How were
the ladies treated at an A&M dance?
Well, you could go up and tap something. No, I mean,
were they treated nicely? Oh, yes. The boys
behaved the way they... Oh, they were... Boys
were... They were on their best behavior. They
were not... And how did everybody dress? Oh, you
had the best... You had your best... best clothes
on. And the women had full dresses on. And the
dances were held at Sabisa? Sabisa? Sabisa? What
were the big dances? Which ones? The ring dance,
which it still is. Do you remember going to the ring
dance? Yeah. I imagine that's when, you know,
that's just 30, I don't know, that was after that. I
probably, I don't know how I took that ring dance.
How much did your ring cost, do you remember? Well,
the problem I had was that I was a small person. When
I entered A&M, I only weighed 105 pounds.
And so that big ring that they had, most of them
wore, I just couldn't, it would just be like
something heavy on my hand. And that year they came
out with what they call, I don't know what they call
it, a sweetheart ring, but it was a ring for your
date. It was a woman's ring. But it was the same
design? Exactly the same design. And I bought one
of those. Put it on my finger and then it stayed
there until my wife had to cut it off. Do you
remember what it cost? Oh, it wasn't much money.
How did you feel when you first put that Aggie ring
on? Well, I was an Aggie long before that. That was
just a culmination of everything. But you were
proud. You were proud of it. You
wouldn't do anything that didn't do it. In all of
the years that you've worn an Aggie ring... Have
you ever had any good ring stories? Did you lose it
and somebody found it? No, we never did that. The
only thing I had to do was have my wife read it all.
Did you ever, were you ever in some place far, far
away and somebody saw your Aggie ring? No, I don't
think so. But...
We were talking about A's all the time. Like one of
my favorite ring stories, when I asked President
Bowen for his ring story, he said that when he was a
master's student at Caltech, he went to the
University of Heidelberg for the summer in
Germany. And he said he and two of his German
graduate student buddies are on the train going
over the Brenner Pass in northern Italy on their
way to Venice. And they're over there having a good
time. And he said this very well-dressed lady is
reading a paper. She then lowers the paper and
looks over it and suddenly says, oh, you're from
Texas A&M? Well, yes, ma'am. How did you know?
Well, I saw your ring. Well, how would you know an
Aggie ring? Well, my husband is an Aggie. You might
have heard of him. His name is H.B. Zachary. And he
said he told her, yes, ma'am, I've heard of him.
Well, I ran into Zachary. See, I was on the electric
board for the city of Brown for nine years. See, the
boys in the E department, they said, we want you on
that board down there. That was after I came back
from World War II. And so, uh, what happened was
that, uh, it was Ward and, uh, what was the other
guy's name?
They wanted me on that board. And they got me on that
board. And I stayed there a while. And then later
on, uh, I ran it for, uh, nine years. And, uh, Of
course, I came, I had worked for the REA prior to
that. So I was well immersed in all that, what they
were doing. And Brian was a part of the REA. They had
a, what we call a Texas public. They had a REA. You
had a Texas public or you'd have a co-op. They'd
have a name. But that's the salvation of our... Oh,
yes. You know why? Why? Because they amortize
their loans. Those co-ops sitting out there, they
don't have enough. The city of Bryan don't have a
dime on those three big plants they got. They're
paid for. That's 40% of your... See, in electric
business, you got 40% for investments. You got 40%
as an additional 40% for fuel. And 20% left for
maintenance. So you take 40% out of there, you got
yourself, and that's what I think the
deregulation ought to be. And I hope the city of
Bryan never does. You bet. Now you're A&M what
class? What year? 35. 35. Did you know by chance
when they were students, Earl Rudder or Tiger
Teague? Did you know them as students? No, but when
they were students, did you know them? Yes.
Describe them as students. What were they like?
Tiger Teague, he was always in business. As a
student? Yeah. What kind of business? He took...
He had
a closet in the dormitory over there, and you just
take your clothes to him, and he'd take them to the
cleaner, bring them back, and you'd pay him. Now,
he was a small man, wasn't he, as a student? And he's
called Tiger because he was so energetic? No, I
don't know anything about that. I don't know that,
but I do know that one of the things that happened to
him, it was really, he had
over there, I don't know where it was exactly. It
was somewhere in the Northgate area. He had a room
over there, and he took a lot of the, the
people that had disabilities. This was long
before we even had anything. And
so he brought them in there and he paid them a
salary. Now it wasn't the salary that he had to pay
for by the government.
It was a good salary. And they were doing a lot of
stuff. I don't know. I think they were taking some
clothing and reworking it or something. It was a
regular business. This is while he was a student?
No. Oh, after. Immediately after. This would be
about... In the late 30s? Yeah. What about Earl
Rudder as a student? Oh, I'm sorry. And he had those
people in there. And the wage and hour people came
in there.
And so they said, you've got to fire all those
people because you can't pay them this wage. And he
says, I'm not going to fire them. You go fire them.
He made that man go down there and tell those people
that they didn't have any job
anymore. And that was the kind of man he was. But he
was a Democrat, sold out completely to the
Democrat party. And that's what bothered us. Earl
Rudder, did you know Earl as a student? No, I never
knew him as a student. The only time I knew very much
about him was I got on an airplane with him one day.
After World War II, after he's back here. Yeah, and
he was president there. And we flew from here to, I
think it was probably Kansas City. We sat there in
the front, the last seat before you got to the
front, you know. didn't have a seat in front of it.
We sat there and talked. Back to your student days,
you were not in the Corps as a senior, so you didn't
have any senior boots. No, I got a pair, but they
weren't any good. While you were an
undergraduate, what were boys smoking in those
days? They smoked just regular cigarettes. What
kind? What brand? Campbell I never smoked. I
smoked a little until I went to Ames and got that to
get my master's degree and I had that stipend up
there. And I didn't have enough money. And so I quit
because I couldn't pay for the cigarettes. Back
here when you were a student, were there many boys
that smoked pipes or cigars? No, most of them were
cigarettes. And did any of them roll their own? Not
those people, but we were in contact with a lot of
people. See, I traveled with Dad in the hardware
association. And, well, we met everybody. So you
saw people with Bull Durham and Prince Albert? Oh,
yeah. What about snuff? Did Aggies dip snuff then?
The Negro women dipped snuff. The Negro women,
they dipped snuff like it always was. Did they put
it in their lip or in their jaw? In the lip. It was
always right here. Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. Now, my son, he
got involved in it, and he got it in his jaw. Hmm. And
we had a hell of a time with that. But what broke that
up was that the, uh, he had, he had done, they had
done some, what do you call it, orthotonic? Big
burn? Uh, ortho, something for teeth.
Orthodontist? Yeah. Mm-hmm. And they had done
some work on his teeth. And the, uh, I said, I just
told him that he had to stop because he would run his
teeth. And so he quit cold turkey. Back to your A&M
days, when you graduated, do you remember
commencement? What was it like? What was the
commencement ceremony like?
I think it was...
Was it in DeWare or Guyon Hall or out in the stadium?
It was in the stadium. Well, it would be in probably
Guyon Hall because there was only 300. 300
graduated? Did every hand get shaken? Every name
was called? Yes, it was. It went across the stage.
Just like it is today. How did you feel when you got
your diploma? Great.
I had a job with the USDA at that time, but it didn't
last. Did it not last because of the depression?
No, because of health. I had appendicitis,
for example. I worked three weeks on it. I was in in
the conservation service. As you look back on your
A&M undergraduate years, which teachers helped
you the most? The ones that you feel most grateful
for having had as your teachers? Well,
Well, old Cubone Ritchie, he was a good teacher. He
was a real good teacher. And what did he teach?
Strength of Materials.
OK. Who else? Oh,
the guy in genetics. I enjoyed that. What was his
name? Do you remember? I don't remember, but he had
an aneurysm.